Friendly recap:

Patterns have many special characters, that can be scaped or single quited if used litterarly. The support of these special character may not be entirely complete in the NFA builder yet. Please add any such support that is missing.

Pattern parsing needs to be 100% correct. Maybe using recursive descent parsing with proper tokenization.

he rdp parser needs to:
. recurse to parse subelements
. combine all the subgraphs appropriately
. return its own subgraph for mergingg correctly into the caller
So each rdp function will need to return an NFA subgraph with information on entry/exit for correctt linking and merging into what
its caller is building.

We will parse one txt file with many patterns into a combined NFA that recognizes any of them. We have 8 categores with accepting state using a bitmask to show which categories of pattterns was recognized.

The exit elements could all be linked with instant-transitions to a sigle subpattern-exit if this helps. Then we can compact and reduce
these instant-transitions in the NFA to symbol-DFA conversion. This will simplify pattern building alot.
 The instant transition is solely for NFA graph notation and easier building from subgraphs. It is completely removed after bulding
 the NFA from patterns, in the first NFA to symbol-DFA stage.

The NFA is a nondeterministic automaton where a pattern matches an input string if there is a path from entry to an accepting state, having one transiton per input byte sequence. The path of a match may be cyclic, or there may be several paths. Its a match if there exist at least one such path. In an NFA there can be any number of transitions on the same character from one state into other states.

The rdp_parse functions may need a location to build, extend, finalize then push subgraphs to the resulting NFA that can be used
when recursing down, merging the work of calls then finalize on the way up through unwinding the recursion again?

One way to translate 'cat ((SAFE::FILENAME))+' into NFA is to first expand it into 'cat ((SAFE::FILENAME))((SAFE::FILENAME))*'
This is exactly what it means, so its probably the only way.

Use the translation to get the + operator to work with any kind of preceeding subpattern, you will wither:
- need to make a fresh new NFA-subgraph of the preceeding subpaterh
or deep copy of the preceding NFA-subgraph that the * will act on.

When extending an NFA-graph with a subpattern, we do on-the-fly equivalence checking before adding a new state. Equivalance means the state has the same (or a subset) transitions going into and the same (exact) transitions going out of it. So we can reuse an existing state if we already have an equivalent one, reducing the NFA size.

The special end-of-string transition/symbol can be used in the NFA to accept after a full match. When matching in input we implicitly add this
 end-of-string marker at the end of input. In the same spirit, we have the special beginning state. This way we can
 have transitions that are only happen at the beginning of a string, and transitions that only happen at the end of a string.
 Similarly, we might need a special terminal error state, that patterns can transition into to disallow any further transitions.

Alphabet symbols are flattened into characters (byte-values) in the final binary dfa construction. Special symbols get flattened into rules, an opcode with parameters.

Note that there are two stages of DFA building, the NFA to DFA conversion using symbols, then the DFA to binary flattened DFA
conversion.
NFA to DFA conversions results in a deterministic automaton still uses the symbol alphabet.
DFA to binary-flattened DFA results in a DFA that transitions using byte-values and rule op-codes, represented in a compact binary format. This binary format can be loaded from disk into memory and directly used to evaluate the dfa on strings or byte sequences. Without any deserialization step, so all internal "pointers" are expressed as relative offsets or indices.

Ok, so in the binary DFA format the transitions must be listed in order of priority for short-circuit first-match processing. And
 there are TWO types of transitions:
 - by exact character/byte value (the simple kind)
 - by rule (the wildcard kind)
Rules are represented by opcode and and any neccesary parameter values. The binary representation must be compact, but using parametrized rules can be more compact than long character lists.

So transitions on symbols are flattened into lists of simple and rule matches listed in a first-match order.
The EOF is simply a rule that can only be activated by teh input being consumed, not by any character. Whilecard is a rule that
matches **a character** but not caring which character. The aokppropriate use of rules can reduce final binary dfa size.
We will need parametrized rules of many kinds, but the first-match shortcircuited evaluation of simple and rule transitions must always
hold:
- rule: not 'c', matches one character with a byte value different from c
- rule: char-range: 'a'-'b', matches one character with a byte value >= 'a' and <= 'b'
- wildcard, EOF, etc


When testing the client, you must preload into sh -c 'command' and not directly into command.
But we know the so client is working. Focus on debugging the DFA conversion, flattning into binary format and evaluation of a binary DFA on input strings.

Good, now continue the work to support capture syntax in patterns using xml-link syntax.
The full chain: pattern-> NFA-> DFA-> character-DFA-> binary-DFA-> DFA-evaluation
must be updated and work 100% with the new captures.
- note that adiding a space transition to a state that already has other trasnitions on space is 100% allowed in an NFA
- 'character class' patterns are simply a special use for fragments. Fragments must suport the full pattern syntax. They are general
reusable patterns.

The rdp_parse functions may need a location to build, extend, finalize then push subgraphs to the resulting NFA that can be used
 when recursing down, merging the work of calls then finalize on the way up through unwinding the recursion again?

Note that a capture begin/end may be encoded as a state or transition in the final binary dfa, which ever is most suitable. If it
becomes a state, the dfa automatically moves past this state. If its a transition, the capture op happens as part of the transition.
The dfa-eval will need to keep a small stack of noncompleted ops, and report the final completed captures. Captures may close/complet
as part of the the final end-of-input transition.

Before fixing the binary-dfa-eval, verify all previous stages of pattern to final binary-dfa processing..


I think we need to make the rdp_parse_element etc functions return a struct with both subpattern_first_state and
subpattern_last_state. Then the caller can add transitions into and outof the subpattern correctly, linking it into what the caller is building.
The instant transition links two states, without consuming any symbol or character.

 We are building the method with instant non-consuming transitions. Its the cleanest solution and does not require us to make copies
 of the subpattern that the + quantifier applies to. We already decided to use landing-pad states to collect the initial transition
 set of patterns and subpatterns for each passing up and down the rdp recursion. These mechanisms naturally combine into reusable
 primitives.
 The NFA to symbol-DFA conversion handles the nonconsuming transitions naturally, as it creates sets of states.

